Translation Program page revamp (#7289)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/contributing/translation-program/blog-translations/index.md

In line with some key values from the [ethereum.org Translation Program mission and vision](/contributing/translation-program/mission-and-vision) - accessibility, inclusivity, empowerment, and building the global Ethereum community - we want to translate the Ethereum Foundation blog posts in as many languages as possible.

The blog translation project is open and anyone can contribute.
If you want to get involved and help translate blog posts into your language, read on to learn how to join the project in Crowdin and start translating.

## How to translate {#how-to-translate}

<InfoBanner shouldCenter emoji=":light_bulb:">
  We encourage you to check out the ethereum.org Translation style guide. It contains some of the most important guidelines, instructions, and tips for translators to help localize the blog. While originally written for ethereum.org translators, most of the style guide is relevant to blog translations as well.
  {" "}<Link to="/contributing/translation-program/translators-guide/">View the Translation Style Guide</Link>
</InfoBanner>

> 1. **[Join the blog translations project on Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/ethereum-foundation-blog)**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **[Join the blog translations project on Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/ethereum-foundation-blog/invite)**  
```

   You will need to log in to your Crowdin account or sign up if you don’t already have one. All that is required to sign up is an e-mail account and password.

> 2. **Open the language you want to translate and find a blog post to work on**  

Reviewer: I suspect we should include an answer to "what if I want to translate a blog post but don't see it in Crowdin?", e.g. providing instructions to contact our team & ask us to add the blog post file to Crowdin.

Reviewer: On this front, we should probably explain our general approach, e.g. that we'll focus on new posts moving forward (or however we intend to prioritize posts to be translated).

Reviewer 2: **Open the language you want to translate and find a blog post to work on**

This is two steps

- Open the language you want to translate
- find a blog post to work on

---
title: Ethereum Foundation blog translations
lang: en
description: Contribute to Ethereum by translating the Ethereum Foundation blog.
sidebar: true
---

# Ethereum Foundation blog translations {#blog-translations}

> [The **Ethereum Foundation (EF)** blog](https://blog.ethereum.org/) is the main way most teams within the EF communicate to the community. Many use the blog to post announcements, updates, reports, roundups, and other public communication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[The **Ethereum Foundation (EF)** blog](https://blog.ethereum.org/) is the primary way most teams within the EF communicate to the community. Many use the blog to post announcements, updates, reports, roundups, and other public communication.
```

In line with the key values of the [ethereum.org Translation Program mission and vision](/contributing/translation-program/mission-and-vision) (accessibility, inclusivity, empowerment, and building the global Ethereum community), we want to provide the Ethereum Foundation blog posts in as many languages as possible.

Anyone can contribute to translating the EF blog. If you want to get involved, keep reading to learn how to join the project in Crowdin and start translating.

## How to translate {#how-to-translate}

> <InfoBanner shouldCenter emoji=":light_bulb:">

Reviewer 2: <img width="825" alt="Screenshot 2022-08-12 at 12 08 25" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/62268199/184342240-1524dbb0-2edf-426d-992d-6cff67dd96e8.png">

Weird UI bug here

> <InfoBanner shouldCenter emoji=":light_bulb:">
>   We encourage you to check out the ethereum.org Translation style guide. It contains some of the most important guidelines, instructions, and tips for translators to help localize the blog. While originally written for ethereum.org translators, most of the style guide is relevant to blog translations as well.

Reviewer 2: - I'd personally use translate > localize because more people will understand it.

```suggestion
<InfoBanner shouldCenter emoji=":light_bulb:">

  We encourage you to check out the ethereum.org translation style guide. It contains some of the most important guidelines, instructions, and tips for translators to help translate the blog. While initially written for ethereum.org translators, most of the style guide is also relevant to blog translations.
```

>   We encourage you to check out the ethereum.org translation style guide. It contains some of the most important guidelines, instructions, and tips for translators to help translate the blog. While initially written for ethereum.org translators, most of the style guide is also relevant to blog translations.
>   {" "}<Link to="/contributing/translation-program/translators-guide/">View the translation style guide</Link>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We encourage you to check out the ethereum.org translation style guide. It contains some of the most important guidelines, instructions, and tips for translators to help translate the blog. While initially written for ethereum.org translators, most of the style guide is also relevant to blog translations.
  
<Link to="/contributing/translation-program/translators-guide/">View the translation style guide</Link>

```

>   {" "}<Link to="/contributing/translation-program/translators-guide/">View the Translation Style Guide</Link>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  {" "}<Link to="/contributing/translation-program/translators-guide/">View the translation style guide</Link>
```

</InfoBanner>

> 1. **Join the blog translations project in Crowdin**  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Join the blog translations project in Crowdin {#join-crowdin}
```

>    You will need to log in to your Crowdin account or sign up if you don’t already have one. All that is required to sign up is an e-mail account and password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will need to log in to your Crowdin account or sign up if you don’t already have one. All that is required to sign up is an e-mail account and password.
```

<ButtonLink to="https://crowdin.com/project/ethereum-foundation-blog/invite">
  Start translating
</ButtonLink>

> 2. **Open the language you want to translate and find a blog post to work on**  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Open the language you want to translate and find a blog post to work on {#pick-language-and-post}
```

>    Each post is uploaded to Crowdin as an individual file. The files are named after the blog post title, so if you're looking for a specific post to translate, it should be fairly straightforward. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each post is uploaded to Crowdin as an individual file. The files are named after the blog post title, so it should be fairly straightforward if you're looking for a specific post to translate.
 
```

>    Blog posts are prioritized based on their date of publication. Please follow the numerical order when translating, to ensure that recently published posts get translated first (1 → 2 → 3 → ⋯).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Blog posts are prioritized based on their date of publication. Please follow the numerical order when translating to ensure that recently published posts get translated first (1 → 2 → 3 → ⋯).
```

> ![Translated and untranslated files in Crowdin](./blog-posts.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Screenshot showing how blog posts are numbered in the Crowdin user interface](./blog-posts.png)
```

> 3. **Translate**  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Translate {#translate}

```

>    After selecting a blog post to translate, the online editor will open automatically. If you have never used Crowdin, use this quick guide to learn the basics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After selecting a blog post to translate, the online editor will open automatically. If you have never used Crowdin, use this quick guide to learn the basics.
```

>    After selecting the file you want to translate, it will open in the online editor. If you have never used Crowdin before, you can use this quick guide to go over the basics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   After selecting a blog post to translate, the online editor will open automatically. If you have never used Crowdin, use this quick guide to learn the basics.
```

Reviewer 2: > If you have never used Crowdin, use this quick guide to learn the basics.

Is there supposed to be a link here?

> _To ensure that the blog posts being translated are still relevant, the Crowdin project mostly contains new and recently published posts. If you would like to suggest a blog post that should be translated, please send us an email at translations@ethereum.org._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_To ensure that the most relevant blog posts are being translated, Crowdin contains primarily new or recently published posts. If you'd like to suggest a currently unavailable blog post for translation, please email us at [translations@ethereum.org](mailto:translations@ethereum.org)._
```

> For a more in-depth guide to using Crowdin, please visit the [How to translate](/contributing/translation-program/how-to-translate) section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a more in-depth guide to using Crowdin, visit our [how to translate page](/contributing/translation-program/how-to-translate).
```
